Checklist-based testing — is a type of software testing based on the pre-planned “to-do” list of tasks called a checklist. 
Professional testers, who have sufficient technical experience usually complete these lists. QA (Quality Assurance) engineers use such checklists to guide the testing activities.
	The Testing Checklist is a document that describes which features should be tested.
The Testing Checklist consists of two main parts:
- a list of features implemented in the specific product, performance of which must be verified;
- a list of possible tests and errors that may exist.
The Testing Checklist should include:
- a detailed list of tests;
- verification status;
- verification results.
 

WEB Application Testing Checklist
 
The checklist for testing WEB applications consists of six sections:
 
➤Functional testing
➤Integration testing
➤Security Testing
➤Localization and globalization testing
➤Usability Testing
➤Cross platform testing
 
Functional testing.
At this point, it is important for us to make sure that our product meets the desired functional specification mentioned in the development documentation.

Integration testing.
Integration testing is done to make sure your application is compatible with third party services.

Security Testing.
This check is aimed at finding flaws and gaps in terms of the security of our application.

Localization and globalization testing.
Testing the internationalization/globalization of a WEB application involves testing the application for various locations, date formats, numbers, and currencies. Localization testing involves testing a WEB application with localized strings, images, and workflows for a particular region.

Usability Testing.
Usability testing involves testing navigation, content, and other information for the user.

Cross platform testing.
Cross-platform testing is done to make sure your app is compatible with other browsers, different skins, device hardware.
 

Mobile app testing checklist
 
The mobile app testing checklist consists of eight sections:
 
➤Functional testing
➤Compatibility testing
➤Security Testing
➤Localization and globalization testing
➤Usability Testing
➤Stress testing
➤Cross platform testing
➤Performance Testing
 
Functional testing.
At this point, it is important for us to make sure that our product meets the desired functional specification mentioned in the development documentation.

Compatibility testing.
Compatibility testing is used to ensure that your application is compatible with other OS versions, different skins and third party services, and device hardware.

Security Testing.
This check is aimed at finding flaws and gaps in terms of application security.

Localization and globalization testing.
Application internationalization/globalization testing includes testing the application for various locations, date formats, numbers, and currencies, and replacing actual strings with pseudo strings. Localization testing involves testing the application with localized strings, images, and workflows for a specific region.

Usability Testing.
Usability testing helps to ensure that the user can easily and efficiently use the product in order to achieve their goals. In other words, this is nothing more than testing the friendliness of the application for the user.

Stress testing.
Stress testing is aimed at determining the effectiveness of the application performance under increased load. The stress test in this context is only focused on mobile devices.

Cross platform testing.
An important type of testing that needs to be done to understand whether the product being tested will properly display on the various platforms used by the target audience.

Performance testing.
If a user installs an app and it doesn't show up fast enough (for example, within three seconds), it may be removed in favor of another app. Time and resource consumption aspects are important success factors for an application, and performance testing is done to measure these aspects.
